---
layout: post
title: "Comments"
date: 2017-07-14
---

Some comments can be useful given certain circumstances. However, they have a tendency
to pollute our codebases. They become less accurate and more misconstrued over time.
On the contrary, they can give developers very useful context in a pinch. Regardless,
they too often serve as a justification for writing poor quality, and unreadable code.

## Partially acceptable comments (sometimes... kind of....)

- Informative comments: can be useful for supplying basic information, but are often avoidable
by using better method names or extracting certain responsibilities to a class.

- Explanation of Intent: sometimes our implementations of certain functionality can be
somewhat unclear and hacky. Ideally we'd take the time to refactor our code so that
it is more intuitive, but when time isn't a luxury that we have, it may be better to
leave a comment that explains our intention.

- Clarification: it can be useful to translate the meaning of an obscure variable or
return type into something readable- again, it's better to find a way to make the
argument clear without a comment, but this can be an acceptable approach when working
with some sort of library, or code that you cannot change for whatever reason.

- Warning of consequences: developers can sometimes appreciate a  comment that warns them
about some sort of expensive process or third party call that may take a substantial amount
of time, or computational power. Unclear side effects should always be avoided in our
code, but if they slip through for whatever reason, it can be nice to let people know.

- TODOS: TODO comments are too often used as an excuse to leave poor code in the systems
we build. The only acceptable time to use one, is a case where something is blocking
the thing that is to be done, and therefore can serve as a somewhat useful reminder.

The bottom line: The only truly good comment is the one that you found a way not to write.

The types of comments listed above can be justified given certain situations. The
following types, and many others, are never justified.

## Completely unacceptable comments

- Misleading: Comments that are misleading are the worst of all. If a comment insinuates
that the code is doing one thing, but it actually does something else, than it is
doing the reader a disservice and they would be better off just reading the code. This
tends to happen over time, as code changes, and comments don't. This is why it is crucial
to not just look at comments, but also look at the code and verify that we understand
what is actually happening.

- Redundant: Comments that reiterate what the code already says are a complete waste of
time. They break the flow of the programs, and make developers do a double take for
no reason.

- Journal comments: these are comments of changes to our code over time. They used to
be useful before we had git. Now- they're just wasted bits.

- Closing brace comments: if your program has such complex nested blocks that you feel
the need to add comments that clarify which closing brace is closing which opening brace-
you've got much bigger problems. This is a very clear indication that the code needs
to be refactored.
